#sidebar TableOfContents

= Introduction =

OpenPLC is an open hardware alternative for industrial and home automation. It uses the well known ATmega chips as main processor, the same used on Arduino. This means that OpenPLC is code-compatible with all arduino sketches.



= Details =

The main features of the OpenPLC are:


● 4 Protected 24V Digital Inputs

● 4 Protected 24V Digital Outputs

● 4 Protected 24V Analog Inputs

● USB Communication (also used to program)

● SPI & I2C buses for peripherals and I/O expansions

● Open Source IDE with c++ programming

● Open Source IDE with Ladder programming

● Expansion Cards - Digital I/O, Analog I/O, Ethernet & more...

● 16MHz ATmega328P as main processor


= News = 

*September 10, 2012*

After some analysis, we realized that our linear 7805 power supply would not be a good idea. It would generate a lot of heat if the circuit starts to demand too much current. Also it has some conceptual problems (you can't short the output of two 7805's because the regulation in two CI's are not exactly the same). So we decided to substitute the linear power supply with a better and optimized switching power supply based on LM2576. Check it out  


*September 4, 2012*

We just finish building the first schematic of the OpenPLC Main Board. You may want to check our [Design] page for more details

*August 28, 2012*

Today we presented the OpenPLC project for the first time at PUC University. You may want to check our presentation [http://open-plc.googlecode.com/files/OpenPLC%20Presentation.pdf here]